doc/source/stdlib/detail/match.rst, before:

.. |structure-match-MatchError| replace:: to be documented in |structure-match-MatchError|.rst

.. |structure-match-MatchTo| replace:: to be documented in |structure-match-MatchTo|.rst

.. |class-match-MatchMacro| replace:: to be documented in |class-match-MatchMacro|.rst

.. |method-match-MatchMacro.preVisit| replace:: to be documented in |method-match-MatchMacro.preVisit|.rst

.. |method-match-MatchMacro.visit| replace:: to be documented in |method-match-MatchMacro.visit|.rst

.. |method-match-MatchMacro.canVisitArgument| replace:: to be documented in |method-match-MatchMacro.canVisitArgument|.rst

.. |method-match-MatchMacro.canFoldReturnResult| replace:: to be documented in |method-match-MatchMacro.canFoldReturnResult|.rst

.. |class-match-StaticMatchMacro| replace:: to be documented in |class-match-StaticMatchMacro|.rst

.. |class-match-MatchAsIs| replace:: to be documented in |class-match-MatchAsIs|.rst

.. |function-match-match_type| replace:: to be documented in |function-match-match_type|.rst

.. |function-match-match_expr| replace:: to be documented in |function-match-match_expr|.rst

Commit message:

This is where we transition towards more detailed documentation. We now support documenting enumeration fields, bitfields, function arguments and return values and such.

doc/source/stdlib/detail/match.rst, after:

.. |detail/enumeration-match-MatchType| replace:: to be documented in |detail/enumeration-match-MatchType|.rst

.. |detail/structure-match-MatchError| replace:: to be documented in |detail/structure-match-MatchError|.rst

.. |detail/structure-match-MatchTo| replace:: to be documented in |detail/structure-match-MatchTo|.rst

.. |detail/class-match-MatchMacro| replace:: to be documented in |detail/class-match-MatchMacro|.rst

.. |detail/method-match-MatchMacro.preVisit| replace:: to be documented in |detail/method-match-MatchMacro.preVisit|.rst

.. |detail/method-match-MatchMacro.visit| replace:: to be documented in |detail/method-match-MatchMacro.visit|.rst

.. |detail/method-match-MatchMacro.canVisitArgument| replace:: to be documented in |detail/method-match-MatchMacro.canVisitArgument|.rst

.. |detail/method-match-MatchMacro.canFoldReturnResult| replace:: to be documented in |detail/method-match-MatchMacro.canFoldReturnResult|.rst

.. |detail/class-match-StaticMatchMacro| replace:: to be documented in |detail/class-match-StaticMatchMacro|.rst

.. |detail/class-match-MultiMatchMacro| replace:: to be documented in |detail/class-match-MultiMatchMacro|.rst

.. |detail/class-match-StaticMultiMatchMacro| replace:: to be documented in |detail/class-match-StaticMultiMatchMacro|.rst

.. |detail/class-match-MatchAsIs| replace:: to be documented in |detail/class-match-MatchAsIs|.rst

.. |detail/class-match-MatchCopy| replace:: to be documented in |detail/class-match-MatchCopy|.rst

.. |detail/function-match-match_type| replace:: to be documented in |detail/function-match-match_type|.rst

.. |detail/function-match-match_expr| replace:: to be documented in |detail/function-match-match_expr|.rst
